
                        FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE

                           PHP 3.0 RELEASED

June 6, 1998 -- The PHP Development Team announced the release of
PHP 3.0, the latest release of the server-side scripting solution already
in use on over 70,000 World Wide Web sites.

This all-new version of the popular scripting language includes support
for all major operating systems (Windows 95/NT, most versions of Unix,
and Macintosh) and web servers (including Apache, Netscape servers,
WebSite Pro, and Microsoft Internet Information Server).

PHP 3.0 also supports a wide range of databases, including Oracle, Sybase,
Solid, MySQ, mSQL, and PostgreSQL, as well as ODBC data sources.

New features include persistent database connections, support for the
SNMP and IMAP protocols, and a revamped C API for extending the language
with new features.

"PHP is a very programmer-friendly scripting language suitable for
people with little or no programming experience as well as the
seasoned web developer who needs to get things done quickly.  The
best thing about PHP is that you get results quickly," said
Rasmus Lerdorf, one of the developers of the language.

"Version 3 provides a much more powerful, reliable and efficient
implementation of the language, while maintaining the ease of use and 
rapid development that were the key to PHP's success in the past", 
added Andi Gutmans, one of the implementors of the new language core.

"At Circle Net we have found PHP to be the most robust platform for
rapid web-based application development available today," said Troy
Cobb, Chief Technology Officer at Circle Net, Inc.  "Our use of PHP
has cut our development time in half, and more than doubled our client
satisfaction.  PHP has enabled us to provide database-driven dynamic
solutions which perform at phenomenal speeds."

PHP 3.0 is available for free download in source form and binaries for
several platforms at http://www.php.net/.

The PHP Development Team is an international group of programmers who
lead the open development of PHP and related projects.

For more information, the PHP Development Team can be contacted at
core@php.net.
